# Motivations behind Uniform Access

There are a few things which have led me to explore these ideas, the primary motivation was to simplify the use of data.
At the moment there are a lot of projects that do try to simplify the way we doing things, though in general they focus
on doing things their way. The premise here is to do different things in different ways, within a collection of core
concepts which do not dictate the way the solution has to be composed. To allow flexibility and extensibility without
requiring fundamental paradigm changes.

The idioms are intended to show the similarities, how different things can be perceived as the same. As the idioms
slowly reveal, it is possible to describe problems as the "application of resources to complete tasks". This sounds too
obvious to require stating, though when faced with the complexity of modern IT systems, it is important, to sometimes
remind ourselves, that this is really the case.

With the premise of Uniform Access, this allows resources and tasks to be easily assembled into solutions. Just as an
electronics cookbook shows how to create a complex circuit from the basic building blocks. The cookbook solution is most
likely suboptimal, though it not only proves a solution exists, but it is realised quickly. This can be dropped into the
bigger solution to allow progress to be made, whilst simultaneous improving. In the current approaches, after one round
of optimisation the solution would exist until some problems is encountered. Though this thing meets a specification,
which could in the future benefit from improvements from other projects. Hence if the things are identified, any
improvement could be highlighted, or even realised. This allows the solution to be "recomposed" when better tools are
available, or a redeployment to adopt new hardware.

So the desired future state would be a situation where all solutions can be fluid, being able to adopt improvements
without the need to re-engineer, the true realisation of no-code solutions. The solution composes the code components
and the infrastructure to fulfil the business need, as technology progresses, it too can progress. As a Task can be
formed from other Tasks, it is possible to see how complex solutions can be described.

The Uniform Access provides a powerful paradigm, but alone, it is at risk of abuse. Hence security, governance and
assurance are critical for success, the patterns of which also facilitate in realising Uniform Access. The hint here is
ephemeral access, where having request be subject to uniform access allows the task execution to be provided with just
enough permission to execute and no more.

When security, governance and assurance are orthogonal and omnipresent allows engineers to focus on the business problem
and not be distracted by other domains.


